# Change Log
This file is used to list changes made in each release of Research and Engineering Studio (RES).

2024.01
------

**ENHANCEMENTS**

- Add support for snapshots that enable migration between versions of RES.
  - The migration process involves taking a snapshot, deploying the new version (e.g. 2024.01) and applying the snapshot from the previous version (e.g. 2023.11) on the new version. Allows for admins to confirm the new version works before transferring users.
- Add support for private subnets.
  - Enable deployments of RES infrastructure hosts in private subnets with internet access.
  - RES infrastructure hosts refer to the Cluster Manager, Bastion Host, VDC Gateway, VDC Controller, and VDC Broker.
- Deprecation of the analytics stack.
  - Removed required OpenSearch dependency.
  - Reduces RES environment deployment and deletion time by approximately 30 minutes.
- Add support for use of custom Amazon Linux 2 EC2 AMI for RES infrastructure hosts.
  - Enable specifying an AL2 EC2 AMI use for RES infrastructure hosts for users that require specific software or updates installed on their hosts.
  - RES infrastructure hosts refer to the Cluster Manager, Bastion Host, VDC Gateway, VDC Controller, and VDC Broker.
- Add support for ldap_id_mapping “True” in SSSD.
  - Previously the AD sync code required the groups and users to have POSIX attributes uidNumber and gidNumber in order to sync with RES. This conflicted with the IDs generated by SSSD, potentially causing RES users to not be able to access filesystems if they were using SSSD with other systems (e.g. ParallelCluster) .
- Add support for four new regions Asia Pacific (Tokyo), Asia Pacific (Seoul), Canada (Central), Europe (Milan).
- Add ability to add users to projects. Previously only groups could be added to project permissions.

**BUG FIXES**

- Added validation for FSx ONTAP filesystem creation
- Narrowed installation IAM permissions
- Skipped deletion of batteries included related resources
- VDI no longer tries to mount filesystems after removing filesystem from project